‘Impossible!
It will never happen—not in a million years!’
Have you ever thought that way
about someone coming into the truth?
Well, that might be
our limited view of a person.
But how does Jehovah view him or her?
And what is his view of all humans,
even faithless ones?
Notice his limitless view
at 1 Timothy 2:4.
There it says: “. . . God, whose will is
that all sorts of people should be saved
and come to an accurate knowledge of truth.”
So, what is Jehovah’s desire?
It’s his will that all hear the message
and be allowed to make changes and be saved.
Now, to us that might be impossible,
but we know
“with God all things are possible.”
He can stir the heart,
and he can motivate anyone.
While it’s true that “faith
is not [the] possession of all people,”
it is a possession
of millions around the world,
and it can be for those
who choose to acquire it.
We know that the Bible
contains many examples
of men and women
who at one time lacked faith
but later acquired it,
and the same is true today.
It’s not impossible.
This symposium will help us
to remember this fact:
Faithless people can acquire faith
if we have Jehovah’s view of them
and allow all sorts of people
to hear God’s Word and make adjustments.
We will discuss four groups
of people in this symposium:
the Ninevites, Jesus’ fleshly brothers,
prominent ones, and nonreligious people.
And in each one of these symposium talks,
we will consider
what helped former unbelievers
to acquire faith
and what we can learn from that.
First, let’s consider
the example of the Ninevites.
As you recall, they were Assyrians
who lived in the capital city of Nineveh,
and it was founded by Nimrod.
It was referred to
as “the city of bloodshed.”
With that history and backdrop,
we can imagine what the people were like.
They worshipped gods of war.
War was their religion.
Yes, they were aggressive.
They were violent people,
and they took pleasure
in sadistically torturing their captives.
Well, their reputation was known
by all the surrounding nations,
including God’s people.
So that’s why Jehovah sent his prophet Jonah
to go there and proclaim their destruction.
As we notice this first video,
imagine how Jonah must have felt
going into Nineveh
—going through the streets
and observing the people of Nineveh
contemplating his warning message.
How did Jonah view his assignment?
Well, at this time,
he did not have Jehovah’s view.
He was afraid of the Ninevites
—maybe what they thought of him
or what they would do
once they heard his message.
Well, Jonah was human.
He had feelings like ours.
A human tendency is to judge people
on what we see or what we hear about them.
If you were alive then
and Jehovah gave you
this assignment instead of Jonah,
how might you have reacted?
Would you have thought about the Ninevites
and their cruelty
and their wickedness and say,
“They can change”?
Or would you feel: ‘It’s impossible!
It will never happen—not in a million years’?
Well, that’s how Jonah felt.
But Jehovah corrected
his view of his assignment
as well as his view of the people.
And he took that message
and that counsel from Jehovah to heart,
and he proclaimed the message
to the people of Nineveh.
He certainly got the Ninevites’ attention,
but he might have thought to himself,
‘Well, this is the end for me.’
But how did they respond?
Notice Jonah 3:5;
it says:
“And the men of Nineveh put faith in God.”
So this surprised even Jonah himself.
The king made a proclamation
to all the people
of what they should do
to demonstrate their faith.
Notice verse 8; it says:
“Let them be covered with sackcloth,
both man and beast;
“and let them call out earnestly to God
“and turn from their evil ways
and from the violence they practice.
“Who knows
whether the true God may reconsider
“what he intends to do
and turn from his burning anger,
so that we may not perish?”
What helped the Ninevites
to change, to acquire faith?
It was a direct result
of Jonah accomplishing his assignment
—boldly preaching God’s message.
They were given the opportunity to change,
and to Jonah’s surprise, they did.
But Jonah had to make changes too.
He had to take his limited view
of his assignment and the people
and change it to the limitless view
that Jehovah had
—that people can change,
and Jehovah can stir their hearts.
And Jonah had to look at himself
and relook at his assignment.
He was not the judge.
He was not the jury.
He was a messenger.
Having Jehovah’s view changes everything
—how we view others, how we view ourselves,
how we view our assignments today.
We are ministers who have a message.
We’re not the judges.
Well, Jehovah is the Judge.
And how did he judge
the Ninevites worthy
of being saved and having his mercy?
Notice Jonah 3:10;
it says:
“When the true God saw what they did,
“how they had turned back
from their evil ways,
“he reconsidered the calamity
that he said he would bring on them,
and he did not bring it.”
In the following video,
notice the changes that the Ninevites
made and how they benefited.
Are you Jonah?
I am.
Thank you.
Well, the Ninevites certainly changed
from the first video that we watched.
Changes that they made on the inside
allowed them to make changes on the outside
—how they viewed their fellow Ninevites,
and how they treated them.
Even their dispositions changed from gloomy,
unhappy faces to smiling, happy ones.
They were appreciative
of Jonah’s warning message
as well as Jehovah’s mercy.
What’s the lesson for us?
The same lesson that Jonah learned:
We need to show compassion as Jehovah does.
This means more than just noticing
that someone needs help but taking the time
and having the desire
to try to relieve that pain.
Help them.
How can we imitate
Jehovah’s compassion today?
It’s by putting compassion into action.
And we do by our preaching.
And we do this for all  persons
—giving them an opportunity
to change and not being judgmental—
by viewing them as potential sheep
and as our future brother or sister.
Like the Ninevites, many today
are taught wrong beliefs
and attitudes from childhood.
And it may be difficult
to change but not impossible.
What can help them change?
Hebrews 4:12 says
“the word of God” can help.
“The word of God is alive and exerts power.”
Many of us are living proof
of the Bible’s power to change us.
Before learning the truth,
some of us might have been
violent, immoral, faithless.
But as the apostle Paul said:
“That is what some of you were.”
They changed back then.
People are changing today.
With the help of God’s Word
and his holy spirit,
we can help others change.
We cannot read hearts,
but we know that Jehovah can,
and he can stir the heart
and motivate anyone.
What can we do in the meantime?
We can remember to follow
what Romans 10:16 says.
Our assignment is to be a messenger.
Notice verse 16:
“Nevertheless, they did not
all obey the good news.
“For Isaiah says: ‘Jehovah, who has put faith
in the thing heard from us?’
“So faith follows the thing heard.
In turn, what is heard
is through the word about Christ.”
“Faith follows the thing heard.”
What motivated the Ninevites to change?
It was only after they heard
Jonah’s warning message.
It is our hope and prayer
that many will put faith in God
because of the warning message that we give.
So may we be like Jonah.
Be compassionate but bold
in preaching the good news to all.
And who knows?
‘Faith may follow the things heard.’
Remember, it is possible.
Faithless people can acquire faith.
Brother Mark Sanderson,
a member of the Governing Body,
will now consider
the next part of this symposium,
“Remember—Faithless People
Can Acquire Faith!
—Jesus’ Fleshly Brothers.”